Binary search is very important searching algorithm used widely in programming languages.
To better understanding the time complexity,
we're going to learn binary search in this video.
Given a sorted array and we are searching for number 35,
to see if the number is in this array or not.
If you're iterating through this array,
we're going to take a times to find this number.
If we're looking for number 37,
we need to iterate through the entire array.
Can we do better than that?
Sure. Let's use binary search.
So here are some steps for the algorithm,
the binary search algorithm.
We start with looking at the middle number using the mid index.
So mid index can be calculated by start index and end index.
If the middle number is larger than the target,
then we ignore the second half of the array,
because a target can only be in the first half of the array.
If the middle number is smaller than the target,
then we ignore the first half of the array,
because the target can only be in the second half of the array.
If the middle number equals to target,
then are done, we already found our target.
Let's use this algorithm to apply it to the example we have and see how to work.
If you are using the algorithm we described,
so here we are starting with some middle number.
The middle number is 22,
and we are looking for 35 since 22 is smaller than 35,
which means we don't need to worry about the first half of the array anymore,
so we ignore the first half of the array
and we look in through the second half of the array.
So we are taking out
the first half of the array and only focus on the second half of the array.
So second iteration, we're looking at
the middle number of the rest of the array which has 29.
Twenty-nine, again 29 is smaller than the 35,
and we can ignore the first half of the remaining array.
They were taken out.
So now we're looking at the middle number of the remaining array we have,
which is 35, so we take three iterations to find the target, rather than eight.
Let's do some cognition.
If we have N number to find our target,
the worst-case here is log N. Because,
every time if the first one was N,
the second iteration we have N over two numbers left,
the third iteration we have N over four number left.
So the worst-case scenario,
we need to run through log N times to find our target.
By using binary search,
we have a prerequisite.
Is a collection, it's an array of list you're searching, it'll be sorted,
otherwise you cannot use the binary search or you
can sort it first and use a binary search.